# Rendering JSX to DOM

React provides the `ReactDOM.render()` function that can be used to render JSX to the DOM. In the code example below I render the HTML `<li>` element and the `<foo-bar>` custom element defined using JSX to the DOM

[source code](https://jsfiddle.net/e1thfjro/#tabs=js,result,html,resources)

Once rendered to the DOM, the updated HTML will look like so:

```html
<body>
    <div id="app1"><li class="bar" data-reactid=".0">foo</li></div>
    <div id="app2"><foo-bar classname="bar" children="foo" data-reactid=".1">foo</foo-bar></div>
</body>
```

Just remember that Babel is taking the JSX in your JavaScript files transforming it to React nodes (i.e. `React.createElement()` functions calls) then using these nodes created by React (i.e. the Virtual DOM) as a template for creating a real html DOM branch. The part where the React nodes are turned into the real DOM nodes and added to the DOM in an HTML page occurs when `ReactDOM.render()` is called.

#### Notes

* Any DOM nodes inside of the DOM element in which you are rendering will be removed/replaced.
* `ReactDOM.render()` does not modify the DOM element node in which you are rendering React.
* Rendering to an HTML DOM is only one option with React, [other rendering APi's are available](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/top-level-api.html#reactdomserver.rendertostring). For example, it is also possible to render to a string (i.e. `ReactDOMServer.renderToString()`) on the server-side.
* Re-rendering to the same DOM element will only update the current child nodes if a change (i.e. diff) has occurred or a new child node have been added.
* The `ReactDOM.render()` function does not directly render JSX it renders the transformation of JSX to React code.
