# Rendering JSX to DOM

The `ReactDOM.render()` function can be used to render JSX expressions to the DOM. Actually, after Babel transforms the JSX all it is doing is rendering nodes created by `React.createElement()`.  Again, JSX is just a stand in expression for having to write out the `React.createElement()` function calls.

In the code example I am rendering a `<li>` element and a custom `<foo-bar>` element to the DOM using JSX expressions.

> [source code](https://jsfiddle.net/e1thfjro/#tabs=js,result,html,resources)

Once rendered to the DOM, the HTML will look like so:

```html
<body>
    <div id="app1"><li class="bar" data-reactid=".0">foo</li></div>
    <div id="app2"><foo-bar classname="bar" children="foo" data-reactid=".1">foo</foo-bar></div>
</body>
```

Just remember that Babel is taking the JSX in your JavaScript files transforming it to React nodes (i.e., `React.createElement()` functions calls) then using these nodes created by React (i.e., the Virtual DOM) as a template for creating a real html DOM branch. The part where the React nodes are turned into the real DOM nodes and added to the DOM in an HTML page occurs when `ReactDOM.render()` is called.

#### Notes

* Any DOM nodes inside of the DOM element in which you are rendering will be removed/replaced.
* `ReactDOM.render()` does not modify the DOM element node in which you are rendering React.
* Rendering to an HTML DOM is only one option with React, [other rendering APi's are available](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/top-level-api.html#reactdomserver.rendertostring). For example, it is also possible to render to a string (i.e., `ReactDOMServer.renderToString()`) on the server-side.
* Re-rendering to the same DOM element will only update the current child nodes if a change (i.e., diff) has occurred or a new child node have been added.
* Don’t ever call `this.render()` yourself, leave that to React
