# Defining React Node Events

Events can be added to React nodes much like events can be added to DOM nodes. In the code example below I am adding a very simple `click` and `mouseover` event to a React `<div>` node.

> [source code](https://jsfiddle.net/ct5acw2y/#tabs=js,result,html,resources)

Note how the property name for an event in React starts with 'on' and is passed in the `props` argument object to the `ReactElement()` function.

React creates what it calls a [`SyntheticEvent`](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/events.html) for each event, which contains the details for the event. Similar to the details that are defined for DOM events. The `SyntheticEvent` instance, for an event, is passed into the events handlers/callback functions. In the code below I am logging the details of a SyntheticEvent instance.

> [source code](https://jsfiddle.net/9yn5qtxu/#tabs=js,result,html,resources)

Every SyntheticEvent object instance has the following properties.

```
boolean bubbles
boolean cancelable
DOMEventTarget currentTarget
boolean defaultPrevented
number eventPhase
boolean isTrusted
DOMEvent nativeEvent
void preventDefault()
boolean isDefaultPrevented()
void stopPropagation()
boolean isPropagationStopped()
DOMEventTarget target
number timeStamp
string type
```

Additional properties are available depending upon the type/category of event that is used. For example the `onClick` syntheticEvent event also contains the following properties.

```
boolean altKey
number button
number buttons
number clientX
number clientY
boolean ctrlKey
boolean getModifierState(key)
boolean metaKey
number pageX
number pageY
DOMEventTarget relatedTarget
number screenX
number screenY
boolean shiftKey
```

The table below outlines the unique SyntheticEvent properties for each type/category of events.

<table>
<tr>
<th>Event Type/Category:</th>
<th>Events:</th>
<th>Event Specific Properties:</th>
</tr>
  <tr>
  	<td><p>Clipboard</p></td>
    <td>onCopy, onCut, onPaste</td>
	<td>DOMDataTransfer, clipboardData</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
  	<td><p>Composition</p></td>
    <td>onCompositionEnd, onCompositionStart, onCompositionUpdate</td>
	<td>data</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
  	<td><p>Keyboard</p></td>
    <td>onKeyDown, onKeyPress, onKeyUp</td>
	<td>altKey,
charCode,
ctrlKey,
getModifierState(key),
key,
keyCode,
locale,
location,
metaKey,
repeat,
shiftKey,
which</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
	  <td><p>Focus</p></td>
	<td>onChange, onInput, onSubmit</td>
  <td>DOMEventTarget,  relatedTarget</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
	<td><p>Form</p></td>
  <td>onFocus, onBlur</td>
  <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
	<td><p>Mouse</p></td>
  <td>onClick, onContextMenu, onDoubleClick, onDrag, onDragEnd, onDragEnter, onDragExit
onDragLeave, onDragOver, onDragStart, onDrop, onMouseDown, onMouseEnter, onMouseLeave
onMouseMove, onMouseOut, onMouseOver, onMouseUp</td>
  <td>altKey,
button,
buttons,
clientX,
clientY,
ctrlKey,
getModifierState(key),
metaKey,
pageX,
pageY,
DOMEventTarget relatedTarget,
screenX,
screenY,
shiftKey,
  </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
  <td><p>Selection</p></td>
  <td>onSelect</td>
  <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
  <td><p>Touch</p></td>
  <td>onTouchCancel, onTouchEnd, onTouchMove, onTouchStart</td>
  <td>
  altKey
  DOMTouchList changedTouches,
  ctrlKey,
  getModifierState(key),
  metaKey,
  shiftKey,
  DOMTouchList targetTouches,
  DOMTouchList touches,
  </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
  <td><p>UI</p></td>
  <td>onScroll</td>
  <td>
  detail,
  DOMAbstractView view
  </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
  <td><p>Wheel</p></td>
  <td>onWheel</td>
  <td>
  deltaMode,
  deltaX,
  deltaY,
  deltaZ,
  </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
  <td><p>Media</p></td>
  <td>onAbort, onCanPlay, onCanPlayThrough, onDurationChange, onEmptied, onEncrypted, onEnded, onError, onLoadedData, onLoadedMetadata, onLoadStart, onPause, onPlay, onPlaying, onProgress, onRateChange, onSeeked, onSeeking, onStalled, onSuspend, onTimeUpdate, onVolumeChange, onWaiting</td>
  <td></td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
  <td><p>Image</p></td>
  <td>onLoad, onError</td>
  <td></td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
  <td><p>Animation</p></td>
  <td>onAnimationStart, onAnimationEnd, onAnimationIteration</td>
  <td>
  animationName,
  pseudoElement,
  elapsedTime
  </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
  <td><p>Transition</p></td>
  <td>onTransitionEnd</td>
  <td>
  propertyName,
  pseudoElement,
  elapsedTime
  </td>
  </tr>

</table>


#### Notes

* React normalizes events so that they behave consistently across different browsers.
* Events in React are triggered on the bubbling phase. To trigger an event on the capturing phase add the word "Capture" to the event name (e.g., `onClick` would become `onClickCapture`).
* If you need the browser event details you can access this by using the `nativeEvent` property found in the SyntheticEvent object passed into React event hander/callback.
* React doesn't actually attach events to the nodes themselves, it uses [event delegation](http://domenlightenment.com/#11.14).
* `e.stopPropagation()` or `e.preventDefault()` should be triggered manually to [stop](http://domenlightenment.com/#11.9) event [propagation](http://domenlightenment.com/#11.10) instead of `return false;`.
* Not all DOM events are provided by React. But you can still make use of them [using React lifecycle methods](https://facebook.github.io/react/tips/dom-event-listeners.html).
