# What Are Component Props?

The simplest way to explain component props would be to say that they function similar to HTML attributes. For example, in the code below a `Badge` component is created and it is expecting a 'name' prop to be sent when the component is instantiated.

> [source code](https://jsfiddle.net/codylindley/xcL8pff7/1/#tabs=js,result,html,resources)

Inside the render function of the `BadgeList` component, where `Badge` is used, the `name` prop is added to the `Badge` component much like an HTML attribute is added to an HTML element (i.e., `<Badge name="Bill" />`). The `name` prop is then used by the `Badge` component (i.e. `this.props.name`) as the text node for the React `<div>` node rendered by the Badge component.

Another way to think about component props is that they are the configuration values sent to a component. If you look at the non-JSX version of the previous code example it should be obvious component props are just an object that gets passed to the `createElement()` function (i.e. `React.createElement(Badge, { name: "Bill" })`).

```
var Badge = React.createClass({
	displayName: "Badge",

	render: function render() {
		return React.createElement(
			"div",
			null, //no props defined, so null
			this.props.name //use passed this.prop.name as text node
		);
	}
});

var BadgeList = React.createClass({
	displayName: "BadgeList",

	render: function render() {
		return React.createElement(
			"div",
			null,
			React.createElement(Badge, { name: "Bill" }),
			React.createElement(Badge, { name: "Tom" })
		);
	}
});

ReactDOM.render(React.createElement(BadgeList, null), document.getElementById('app'));
```

This is similar to how props can be set directly on React nodes (see 4.4 and 5.7). However, when the `createElement()` function is passed a component definition (i.e. `Badge`) instead of a node, the props become available on the component itself (i.e., `this.props.name`). Component props make it possible to re-use the Badge component with any name.

In the code example examined in this section the `BadgeList` component uses two `Badge` components each with there own `this.props` object. We can verify this by console logging out the value of `this.props` when a `Badge` component is instantiated.

> [source code](https://jsfiddle.net/codylindley/Lv1zaudj/2/#tabs=js,result,html,resources)

Basically every React component instance has a unique instance property call `props` that starts as an empty JavaScript object. The empty object can get filled with any JavaScript values that an object can hold. In other words, not just strings, but any JavaScript value.
