# Validating Component Props

The enforcement of the proper usage of a prop within a component props can be validated when component instances are created.

When defining a component, the `propTypes` configuration option can be used to identify if and how props should be validated. In the code example below I'm checking to see that `propArray` and `propObject` are in fact the correct data types and are sent into the component when it is instantiated.

> [source code](https://jsfiddle.net/jxbdodh8/#tabs=js,result,html,resources)

I am not sending the correct props as specified using `propTypes` to demonstrate that doing so will cause an error. The above code will result in the following error showing up in the console.

```
Warning: Failed propType: Invalid prop `propArray` of type `object` supplied to `MyComponent`, expected `array`

Warning: Failed propType: Required prop `propFunc` was not specified in `MyComponent`.

Uncaught TypeError: this.props.propFunc is not a function
```

React offers several built in validators (e.g.` React.PropTypes[VALIDATOR]`) which I outline below and the ability to create custom prop validators.

####Basic type validators:

These validators check to see if the prop is a specific JS primitive. By default all these are optional. In other words, the validation only occurs if the prop is set.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><code>React.PropTypes.string</code></td>
    <td>If prop is used, verify it is a string</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
	<td><code>React.PropTypes.bool</code></td>
	<td>If prop is used, verify it is a boolean</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>React.PropTypes.func</code></td>
    <td>If prop is used, verify it is a function</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
	<td><code>React.PropTypes.number</code></td>
	<td>If prop is used, verify it is a number</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>React.PropTypes.object</code></td>
    <td>If prop is used, verify it is a object</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
	<td><code>React.PropTypes.array</code></td>
	<td>If prop is used, verify it is a array</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
	<td><code>React.PropTypes.any</code></td>
	<td>If prop is used, verify it is of any type</td>
  </tr>
</table>

####Required type validators:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><code>React.PropTypes.[TYPE].isRequired</code></td>
    <td>Chaining the <code>.isRequired</code> on to any type validation to make sure the prop is provided (e.g., <code>propTypes:{propFunc:React.PropTypes.func.isRequired}</code> )</td>
  </tr>
</table>

####Element validators:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><code>React.PropTypes.element</code></td>
    <td>Is a React element.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>React.PropTypes.node</code></td>
    <td>Is anything that can be rendered: numbers, strings, elements or an array
    (or fragment) containing these types.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

####Enumerables validators:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><code>React.PropTypes.oneOf(['Mon','Fri'])</code></td>
    <td>Is one of several types of specific values.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>React.PropTypes.oneOfType([React.PropTypes.string,React.PropTypes.number])</code></td>
    <td>Is an object that could be one of many types</td>
  </tr>
</table>

####Array and Object validators:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><code>React.PropTypes.arrayOf(React.PropTypes.number),</code></td>
    <td>Is an array containing only one type of values.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>React.PropTypes.objectOf(React.PropTypes.number)</code></td>
    <td>Is an object containing only one type of property values</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>React.PropTypes.instanceOf(People)</code></td>
    <td>Is object instance of specific constructor(uses `instanceof`)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>React.PropTypes.shape({color:React.PropTypes.string,size:   React.PropTypes.number})</code></td>
    <td>Is object containing properties having a specific type</td>
  </tr>
</table>

####Custom validators:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td><code>function(props, propName, componentName){}</code></td>
    <td>Supply your own function. For example: <pre><code>
	propTypes: {
	  customProp: function(props, propName, componentName) {
	    if (!/matchme/.test(props[propName])) {
	      return new Error('Validation failed!');
	    }
	  }
	}
	</code></pre></td>
  </tr>
</table>
